README.md, before:

# express-hbs

Express 3 handlebars template engine with multiple layouts, blocks and cached partials.

Open source project from [Barc](http://barc.com), instant real-time forum on any website.

## Usage

0.2 BREAKING CHANGE. The default content name has been reverted back to `contentFor`
as it broke existing installations.  If you wish to change it, use `contentHelperName`
option.

To use with express 3.

    var hbs = require('express-hbs');

    // Use `.hbs` for extensions and find partials in `views/partials`.
    app.engine('hbs', hbs.express3({
      partialsDir: __dirname + '/views/partials',
      contentHelperName: 'content',
    }));
    app.set('view engine', 'hbs');
    app.set('views', __dirname + '/views');

Options for `#express3`

    hbs.express3({
      partialsDir: "{String} [Required] Path to partials templates",

      blockHelperName: "{String} Override 'block' helper name.",
      contentHelperName: "{String} Override 'contentFor' helper name.",
      defaultLayout: "{String} Absolute path to default layout template",
      extname: "{String} Extension for templates, defaults to `.hbs`",
      handlebars: "{Module} Use external handlebars instead of express-hbs dependency",
      layoutsDir: "{String} Path to layout templates"
    });

Partials may use any extension, which is better for syntax highlighting.


## Syntax

To mark where layout should insert page,

    {{{body}}}


To declare a block placeholder in layout.

    {{{block "pageScripts"}}}

To define block content in a page.

    {{#content "pageScripts"}}
      CONTENT HERE
    {{/content}}

There are three ways to use a layout, listed in the order in which they are checked for and used:

1.  Declarative within a page. Use handlebars comment. If you have declared a layoutsDir in the configuration, `LAYOUT` is a relative path from layoutsDir. Otherwise, `LAYOUT` is a relative path from the template.

        {{!< LAYOUT}}

2.  As an option to render

        res.render('veggies', {
          title: 'My favorite veggies',
          veggies: veggies,
          layout: 'layout/veggie'
        });

    This option also allows for default layout suppression by passing in a falsey Javascript value as the value of the `layout` property:

        res.render('veggies', {
          title: 'My favorite veggies',
          veggies: veggies,
          layout: null // render without using a layout template
        });

3.  Lastly, use `defaultLayout` if specified in hbs configuration options.

## Helpers

Synchronous helpers

    hbs.registerHelper('link', function(text, options) {
      var attrs = [];
      for(var prop in options.hash) {
        attrs.push(prop + '="' + options.hash[prop] + '"');
      }
      return new hbs.SafeString(
        "<a " + attrs.join(" ") + ">" + text + "</a>"
      );
    });

    # in markup
    {{{link 'barc.com' href='http://barc.com'}}}

Asynchronous helpers

    hbs.registerAsyncHelper('readFile', function(filename, cb) {
      fs.readFile(path.join(viewsDir, filename), 'utf8', function(err, content) {
        cb(new hbs.SafeString(content));
      });
    });

    # in markup
    {{{readFile 'tos.txt'}}}

## Example

File `views/layout/default.hbs`

```
<html>
  <head>
    <title>{{title}}</title>
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="/css/style.css"/>
    {{{block "pageStyles"}}}
  </head>
  <body>
    {{{body}}}

    {{> scripts}}

    {{{block 'pageScripts'}}}
  </body>
</html>
```


File `views/index.hbs`

```
{{!< default}}

{{#content 'pageStyles'}}
<style>
  .clicker {
    color: blue;
  };
</style>
{{/content}}

<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<p class="clicker">Click me!</p>
```

To run example project

    npm install -d
    node example/app.js

## Testing

    npm test

## Credits

Inspiration and code from [donpark/hbs](https://github.com/donpark/hbs)


## License

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c) 2012, 2013 Barc, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Adding template option support
As per http://handlebarsjs.com/execution.html#Options handlebars supports passing
an options object to template().
This change allows this to be specified along with the hbs.express3 options
Updated README with new option

README.md, after:

# express-hbs

Express 3 handlebars template engine with multiple layouts, blocks and cached partials.

Open source project from [Barc](http://barc.com), instant real-time forum on any website.

## Usage

0.2 BREAKING CHANGE. The default content name has been reverted back to `contentFor`
as it broke existing installations.  If you wish to change it, use `contentHelperName`
option.

To use with express 3.

    var hbs = require('express-hbs');

    // Use `.hbs` for extensions and find partials in `views/partials`.
    app.engine('hbs', hbs.express3({
      partialsDir: __dirname + '/views/partials',
      contentHelperName: 'content',
    }));
    app.set('view engine', 'hbs');
    app.set('views', __dirname + '/views');

Options for `#express3`

    hbs.express3({
      partialsDir: "{String} [Required] Path to partials templates",

      blockHelperName: "{String} Override 'block' helper name.",
      contentHelperName: "{String} Override 'contentFor' helper name.",
      defaultLayout: "{String} Absolute path to default layout template",
      extname: "{String} Extension for templates, defaults to `.hbs`",
      handlebars: "{Module} Use external handlebars instead of express-hbs dependency",
      layoutsDir: "{String} Path to layout templates",
      templateOptions: "{Object} options to pass to template()"
    });

Partials may use any extension, which is better for syntax highlighting.


## Syntax

To mark where layout should insert page,

    {{{body}}}


To declare a block placeholder in layout.

    {{{block "pageScripts"}}}

To define block content in a page.

    {{#content "pageScripts"}}
      CONTENT HERE
    {{/content}}

There are three ways to use a layout, listed in the order in which they are checked for and used:

1.  Declarative within a page. Use handlebars comment. If you have declared a layoutsDir in the configuration, `LAYOUT` is a relative path from layoutsDir. Otherwise, `LAYOUT` is a relative path from the template.

        {{!< LAYOUT}}

2.  As an option to render

        res.render('veggies', {
          title: 'My favorite veggies',
          veggies: veggies,
          layout: 'layout/veggie'
        });

    This option also allows for default layout suppression by passing in a falsey Javascript value as the value of the `layout` property:

        res.render('veggies', {
          title: 'My favorite veggies',
          veggies: veggies,
          layout: null // render without using a layout template
        });

3.  Lastly, use `defaultLayout` if specified in hbs configuration options.

## Helpers

Synchronous helpers

    hbs.registerHelper('link', function(text, options) {
      var attrs = [];
      for(var prop in options.hash) {
        attrs.push(prop + '="' + options.hash[prop] + '"');
      }
      return new hbs.SafeString(
        "<a " + attrs.join(" ") + ">" + text + "</a>"
      );
    });

    # in markup
    {{{link 'barc.com' href='http://barc.com'}}}

Asynchronous helpers

    hbs.registerAsyncHelper('readFile', function(filename, cb) {
      fs.readFile(path.join(viewsDir, filename), 'utf8', function(err, content) {
        cb(new hbs.SafeString(content));
      });
    });

    # in markup
    {{{readFile 'tos.txt'}}}

## Example

File `views/layout/default.hbs`

```
<html>
  <head>
    <title>{{title}}</title>
    <link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="/css/style.css"/>
    {{{block "pageStyles"}}}
  </head>
  <body>
    {{{body}}}

    {{> scripts}}

    {{{block 'pageScripts'}}}
  </body>
</html>
```


File `views/index.hbs`

```
{{!< default}}

{{#content 'pageStyles'}}
<style>
  .clicker {
    color: blue;
  };
</style>
{{/content}}

<h1>{{title}}</h1>
<p class="clicker">Click me!</p>
```

To run example project

    npm install -d
    node example/app.js

## Testing

    npm test

## Credits

Inspiration and code from [donpark/hbs](https://github.com/donpark/hbs)


## License

The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c) 2012, 2013 Barc, Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
